# ACH-safe Charset

ACH files are allowed to use only a subset of US-ASCII. This character set ensures that no disallowed characters are
encoded or decoded. The allowed subset consists of "ASCII values greater than hexadecimal `0x1F`." US-ASCII itself is
limited to 7-bits, resulting in a range from `0x20` through `0x7F`.

## Newline handling

Although the ACH specification does not allow values below `0x20` or above `0x7F`, there are some exceptions implemented
by this ACH Charset:

* `0x0A` is a linefeed. While below the `0x1F` limit, it is often used as a record separator. It is allowed for
  compatibility with common implementations.
* `0x0D` is a carriage return. It is sometimes found in conjunction with a linefeed in files generated by Windows and
  related operating systems. Both the encoder and decoder silently skip carriage returns, and the encoder's
 `canEncode((char) 0x000D)` method returns false.

The above rules cause `CRLF` to be encoded and decoded as `LF` on all platforms. In addition:
* `0x7F` is an unprintable control character called `DEL`. It is not allowed.
* `0x85` is encoded as a newline character. In Unicode, it is equivalent to the EBCDIC NL character used by mainframe
  systems as a line delimiter. For compatibility, this character set only encodes newline as a linefeed. *Encoding* is
  safe because the character is definitely a Unicode newline. *Decoding* a `0x85` byte would not be safe because it
  would require guessing the actual (non-ASCII) encoding of the input stream. If it was UTF-8 then `0x85` would be the
  second or later byte of a multibyte encoding. If it was WIN-1252 then `0x85` would be a horizontal ellipsis (…).
  If it was ISO-8859-1 then `0x85` would be undefined.

## Disallowed character handling

Java `Charset` can be configured for one of three different actions when it encounters an error encoding or decoding
a character:

1. Report, which in most cases results in a `CharacterCodingException`
2. Replace, which replaces the unknown code with a predefined placeholder
3. Ignore, which causes the output to be shorter

The default is to replace the character, which is often the best approach. ACH files have a fixed-width record
format, so ignoring errors by skipping characters may cause downstream processing to fail. Reporting errors with an
exception may lead to an unrecoverable error requiring manual intervention.

# Examples

## Decoding an `InputStream` to a `Reader`

### Length-preserving reads of an ACH input stream

An input stream that is expected to contain only characters allowed by ACH may encounter an unexpected value. Reporting
the error with an exception could abort and delay the entire file ingestion stage due to a single field  on a single
record. Ignoring the error by skipping over the unexpected character may cause an offset that breaks subsequent
processing of a fixed-width field. The best approach may be to substitute a replacement character into the stream and
allow processing to continue. Using a Unicode replacement character (&#xFFFD;) is the default action for a Java
`Charset`.

```Java
InputStream bytesIn = new FileInputStream("input.ach");
// Charset can be passed by name because it has a provider resource in the classpath
Reader reader = new InputStreamReader(bytesIn, "ACH");
// Reader will replace unexpected bytes with the Unicode replacement character
```

### Forcing failure if the input contains unexpected characters

If an input stream that is expected to contain only characters allowed by ACH encounters an unexpected value, it can be
configured to report the error with an exception. This prevents missing or replacement characters being passed, which
ensures that only completely clean inputs continue processing. This is not the default action for a Java `Charset`, so
the behavior must be configured by modifying the `Decoder`.

```Java
InputStream bytesIn = new FileInputStream("input.ach");
// Retrieve Charset by name because it has a provider resource in the classpath
Charset ACH = Charset.forName("ACH");
// Obtain an explicit decoder and override the default behavior on malformed input
CharsetDecoder decoder = ACH.newDecoder().onMalformedInput(CodingErrorAction.REPORT);
// Use the constructor that accepts a CharsetDecoder
Reader reader = new InputStreamReader(bytesIn, decoder);
// Reader will throw an exception if it encounters an unexpected byte
```

## Encoding an `OutputStream` to a `Writer`

### Length-preserving writes to an ACH output stream

ACH files require each record to be 94 characters. The critical fields necessary for processing a file are usually
generated by well-tested templates. A template may include text fields from a source that contains a wider range of
characters than ACH allows. Injecting an unexpected character could cause problems for downstream systems.  Reporting
the error with an exception could abort and delay the entire file generation stage due to a single field  on a single
record. The best solution in this case is to replace the unexpected character with a replacement. Replacing the
offending character with the encoder's default replacement is the default action for a Java `Charset`. The default
replacement is a question mark (?).

```Java
OutputStream bytesOut = new FileOutputStream("output.ach");
// Charset can be passed by name because it has a provider resource in the classpath
Writer writer = new OutputStreamWriter(bytesOut, "ACH");
// Writer will replace unexpected characters with '?'
```

### Forcing failure if the output contains unexpected characters

If a single bad character is considered sufficient cause to abort generation of an ACH file, the encoding can be
configured to throw an exception rather than continuing. This is not the default action for a Java `Charset`, so the
behavior must be configured by modifying the `Encoder`.

```Java
OutputStream bytesOut = new FileOutputStream("output.ach");
// Retrieved Charset by name because it has a provider resource in the classpath
Charset ACH = Charset.forName("ACH");
// Obtain an explicit encoder and override the default behavior on unmappable output
CharsetEncoder encoder = ACH.newEncoder().onUnmappableCharacter(CodingErrorAction.REPORT);
// Use the constructor that accepts a CharsetEncoder
Writer writer = new OutputStreamWriter(bytesOut, encoder);
// Writer will throw an exception if it encounters an unexpected character
```